okay so we're continuing now with
another set of interesting NLP
applications the next one is question
answering let's look at an example of
that in the Jeopardy game you get
questions in the form of answers so you
get something like the antagonist of
Stevenson's Treasure Island and you're
supposed to answer who is Long John
Silver
so this is essentially the same as
asking who is the antagonist in
Stevenson's Treasure Island and then
have Long John Silver as the answer this
is one of the examples that was actually
used in the game that IBM's Watson
system played on TV and just to give an
example of how powerful that system is
it's powered by ten of acts of IBM power
750 servers and has 15 terabytes of RAM
more than 2,500 cores and operates at 80
teraflops so this is the kind of system
that was used to play jeopardy in back
in 2011 okay some of the questions that
were used in jeopardy for example on
December 8th 2008 this national
newspaper raised its newsstand price by
25 cents to $1
the answer is USA Today and so on so
Watson's answers were 66 correct and 9
incorrect including one really funny one
which I would like to bring up here
really quickly the category was US
cities and the question was something
like this which city has two Air Force
one named after World War two hero and
one named after world war two battle
well the correct answer was Chicago but
Watson goofed and answered Toronto now
everybody knows that Toronto is not a US
city the only thing that it has to do
with this question is that it has two
airports but they're actually not named
after any World War two here of the
world war two barrels and it's not even
in the United States so in this case
Watson made a mistake by not
understanding that the category was
explicitly meant to refer to US cities
but still it did pretty well and it had
a two day winning streak of $77,000 and
the to human contestants who had
we been major players and champions on
Jeopardy one much less if you're
interested more in the system we'll talk
about question answering in more detail
later this semester and you can also
read a lot about it online and now the
tasks in natural language processing is
sentiment analysis so there are many
websites where people can enter reviews
of products and their properties so
Amazon has reviews and other website
called opinions has such reviews I have
picked an example from there we have
somebody saying what they thought about
a camera that they just bought so we
have some statements about the camera I
like the camera which is a positive
statement then it says later on that
with this camera I can adjust my images
by copying as I did with my iPad but
better yet so better yet is another
positive thing about the camera then
there's a sentence about the quality of
the images specifically not about the
camera itself but something more
specific than that
I am also quite impressed with the
quality of the images in this case we
have some example of positive sentiment
towards a specific aspect of the object
that we're describing okay so our in the
goal of sentiment analysis is to
recognize the object that is being
discussed and then understand the
sentiment whether it's positive or
negative in it and some of the
challenges here are that some of the
comments may not be about the object
itself but they can be about some
property of the object for example the
quality of the images or maybe the
screen size or maybe the zoom and so on
so one of the hottest areas in natural
language processing is machine
translation imagine that you got an
email from your friend in Japan who all
this text here which is a commodity or
metal God's i'ma switch is Happy New
Year you don't know what it means but
you can very easily copy and paste this
text into a tool like Google Translate
and get back an answer which is Happy
New Year so there are exist both
commercial systems for machine
translation such as Google Translate but
also several open-source systems the
most popular of which these days is
Moses his
small demo of Moses it's available at
the stat MT org website so just to
illustrate how much in transition works
I ran a short document through Google
Translate and I'm showing you here both
the original text and the output this is
a translation from English to French of
a text that is relatively difficult it
has a lot of uncommon words and yet
Google Translate did a very good job
let's look at some of the examples that
I highlighted in both face on the right
hand side
elephants are social animals this is
very correctly translated as Liz
elephants on this animal socio the
second paragraph starts with a very long
sentence that was translated 100%
accurately in French even though it's
very sophisticated in structure another
example correctly translated sentence is
shown at the endless ecology ility de
comfort the more they post issues Monto
which is a very difficult sadness to
translate and yet Google Translate did
perfectly however and not everything was
smooth there are also some cases where
he did relatively bad job for different
reasons let me look at those examples
and explain why they're problematic and
how Google Translate arrived at them so
let's look at the second sentence in the
first paragraph they live with their
families give hugs and KO each other by
using their trunks as trumpets so in
english we have a sentence that has day
as the subject the elephants and then
there are three verbs live with their
families give hugs and KO each other
connected with a conjunction and well
their french translation has some of
those cracka translated for example
vivre which is to live third-person
plural which matches they however the
other two words are not translated
correctly they're translated as fair and
apple a which are the infinitive forms
they're not conjugated properly for
third-person plural and the reason why
this is happening is that in English
given call have the same forms for
third-person plural and also for the
infinitive now in the second paragraph I
highlighted a few words
English sentence says the elephant's
comma with their big brains and survival
savvy may be among the smartest animals
on the planet
well the translation in French says Liz
elephone food that so good that is
singular as in one elephant or as an
expression may be but it is not
translate it correctly it has to be
translated in French as proof at must be
which is a conjugated form the third
highlighted text is about science news
so this is translated as move l de les
Jones which is probably a correct
translation but usually people don't
want to translate names of magazines
like that later down there is an example
with every one which is translated as
two telepaths on which is actually a
very good translation so there's a
mistake however in the following
sentence plotnick a tentacle or campaka
teeth so comparative in french is the
feminine form of the adjective and here
the person is male so the adjective that
was supposed to be used here is
comparative with an F at the end for
singular and finally the last example
here is about acute comparative this
EcoLog which is a really a
mistranslation
that can mislead the person reading the
doctor because the original English text
talks about comparative psychologists
and here we are talking about a study
that compares different psychologists so
this is clearly not the correct
translation the next slide shows you the
general way in which machine translation
systems work they use what is known as
the noisy channel model in the noisy
channel model you observe a text in a
foreign language labeled as F in this
example that's the middle portion of the
pipeline where you see the little letter
F this F is a shield to have been
generated from an English sentence
through an encoder from E to the foreign
language you observe F and then you have
to build a decoder that would translate
back the foreign language into English
so at the end you will get a sentence
crime that may or may not be the correct
sentence II that was originally
translated into the foreign language and
the way that statistical machine
translation works is that it tries to
come up with all the possible sentences
in English if I'm that satisfied two
criteria they have to be both
grammatical in English and also faithful
to the foreign sentence and by faithful
I mean that the words in English
sentences have to be somehow related to
the words in the foreign translation so
we'll talk about machine translation in
much more detail towards the end of this
course okay so another task in natural
language processing is text
summarization text summarization can be
in two different forms in one case you
have a single document and you want to
produce a short version of that document
for example to display on a mobile
device or to process to a text-to-speech
system because you don't have time to
read the entire document or there's not
enough space to show it the second
example of text summarization is known
as multi document summarization in multi
document summarization you have as input
a series of connected documents for
example different news stories on the
same event and the summary should
contain all the information that appears
in all of them as consensus but also in
many cases focus on the differences
between the input documents so the
example here is from a single document
summarization system I need to order
that the output that you see on the next
slide is actually not produced by an
existing text summarization system it is
something that you would want to see but
doesn't exist yet so what's the input it
talks about the health benefits of diet
rich in vegetables and it explains why
eating vegetables is healthy what sort
of nutrients appear in vegetables and so
on it gives you some specific examples
and the ultimate summary that you want
to get and again I'm warning that this
is not the output of an existing system
is something like this eating vegetables
is healthy we'll see later how
summarization systems work so one of the
first summarization systems for news on
DNA that used to be called newsy niacin
and it was developed at the University
of Michigan around 2000 it has since
stopped existing but there are many
other systems like this available
including systems at Columbia and Google
and Yahoo and many other places another
application of natural language
processing is text-to-speech so here I'm
showing you a link to an external
website that you can play with it allows
you to type in an arbitrary text and
then specify how it should be rendered
for example in a male or female voice as
a native speaker of English or as a
Hispanic speaker of English or possibly
a different dialect or different
nationality whether you want the person
to sound angry or happy you should
definitely click on this link and play
with this website yourselves and there
are a lot of companies these days that
produce a text-to-speech software I'm
just going to mention one of them really
quickly here but there are many others
as well so this is one that I encourage
you to take a look at so another
interesting task in natural language
processing has to deal with paraphrasing
and entailment you may remember that
paraphrasing has to deal with different
ways to express the exact same concepts
and there one is however slightly
different I'm showing you here a few
examples from a paper about the recent
challenge on recognizing entailment so
let's look at the fourth example on the
left hand side we have a piece of text
that says google files for its long
awaited IPO and the one on the
right-hand side says google goes public
so the one on the left is called the
text the one on the right is called the
hypothesis and the question here is can
you infer the hypothesis from the text
so in this case the answer is yes
because if a company files for an IPO
that means that it is going public
even though goes public was not used in
the original sentence it's something
that is entailed by the original
sentence now let's look at the example
just before that number three it says
Regan attended a ceremony in Washington
to commemorate the landings in Normandy
so the ceremony took place in Washington
assumedly Washington DC in the capital
of the United States but it was about
the landings in Normandy at the end of
World War two the hypothesis here is
Washington is located in Normandy Wow
a silly natural language processing
system may make that inference but it
wouldn't be correct because Washington
is located in the United States and
Norman is located in France so in this
particular case the entailment from the
text of the hypothesis is actually false
okay a few more examples of natural
language tasks one has to deal with
dialogue systems let's look at their
very realistic scenario with dialogue I
would like to make a reservation at
Sorrento foo n 8:00 p.m. Friday night we
only have availability for 7:00 p.m. and
10:00 p.m.
sorry this don't work for me so this is
a very typical dialogue between a user
and either a human being who makes the
reservations at question or a dialogue
system that is a computer program that
would try to understand the human
questions and answer them appropriately
and then many other applications I'm
just going to enumerate some of them
here we'll talk about some of them in
more detail in the class but most of
those are based on papers that you can
find on the ACA website or in other
publication venues in natural language
processing so things like spelling
correction web search natural language
interfaces to databases for example I'm
looking for all the employees who make
more than $50,000 and who recently
relocated to this state from another
state so this is something that you can
very easily express as a sequel query
but if you want to express it as a
natural language sentence then the
natural language interface will have to
translate it for you into a sequel query
some other examples of natural language
applications include parsing job
postings for example finding all the
postings that look for people with a
certain level of experience in a certain
State
summarizing medical records for example
you have
many patients who have undergone the
same treatment in the same hospital and
you want to look at their medical
records and extract information about
some of the results from the experiments
information extraction for databases a
social network extraction from texts
essay grading generating weather reports
sports reports and news stories all
those exist in many different forms in
both the commercial world and the
research world so this concludes the
section on different NLP applications in
the next segment we're going to look at
the natural competition